1. A Member of Parliament from Montreal announces that she will spend her weekend in her electoral district. This means she would be:

In her office on Parliament Hill.
Visiting the province of Quebec.
In the part of Montreal where she was elected. (correct answer)
Going on a vacation.
2. After a federal election, which party forms the new government?

The party with the most elected representatives is invited by the Governor General to become the party in power. (correct answer)
The King himself picks any party to run the government.
The Governor General proposes a law for elected officials to become the governing body.
The Premiers of each province pick a party to run the government
3. Approximately how many Canadians served in the First World War?

7000.
8 million.
About 60,000.
More than 600,000. (correct answer)
4. Canada has three territories and how many provinces?

13
10 (correct answer)
3
5
5. Fatima is a new immigrant in Canada. What law allows her to take a job at par with a man?

Equality of women and men (correct answer)
Equality of all races.
Equal pay for equal work.
Equal rights.
6. From where does the name “Canada” come from?

From the Inuit word meaning country.
From the French word meaning joining.
From the Métis word meaning rivers.
From "Kanata", the Huron-Iroquois word for village. (correct answer)
7. Give an example of how you can show responsibility by participating in your community.

Mind your own business.
Have a party.
Keep your property tidy.
Volunteer. (correct answer)
8. Give an example of where English and French have equal status in Canada.

In schools.
In the workplace.
In the Parliament of Canada. (correct answer)
At City Hall.
9. Give the first line of Canada’s national anthem?

O Canada! Our home and native land! (correct answer)
O Canada! Our province and native land!
O Canada! From far and wide, O Canada,
O Canada! We stand on guard for thee.
10. How are Members of Parliament chosen?

Appointed by the Prime Minister.
Elected by Canadian citizens. (correct answer)
Appointed by the King.
Elected by the Provincial Ministers.
11. How are Senators chosen?

By the Governor General of Canada.
By the Premiers of all provinces.
Appointed by the King.
Senators are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
12. How does a bill become a law?

The Lieutenant Governor must approve the bill.
Approval by a majority in the House of Commons and Senate and finally the Governor General. (correct answer)
The King must sign the bill.
Approval by the Members of the Legislative Assembly.
13. How is a Cabinet Minister chosen?

By the King.
By the voters.
By other Cabinet Ministers.
By the Prime Minister (correct answer)
14. How is the government formed after a federal election?

The party with the most elected representatives becomes the party in power. The King chooses the Prime Minister from this party
Ordinarily, the party with the most elected representatives becomes the party in power. The leader of this party becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
The Governor General picks a party and a Prime Minister to run the government.
Each province elects one representative to form the government. The King then chooses the Prime Minister.
15. How is the Prime Minister chosen?

The King appoints the Prime Minister.
The Governor General with the Senate appoint the Prime Minister.
The leader of the party with the most elected representatives becomes the Prime Minister. (correct answer)
The MPs vote on the Prime Minister.
16. In Canada, are you allowed to question the police about their service or conduct?

No, police service and conduct is not open to discussion with Canadians.
Yes, you can question their service but not their conduct.
Yes, you can question their conduct but not their service.
Yes, if you feel the need to. (correct answer)
17. In Canada’s justice system what does “presumption of innocence” mean?

Everyone is guilty until proven innocent
Guilt is decided by public opinion
Innocence is decided by public opinion
Everyone is innocent until proven guilty (correct answer)
18. In the 1960s, Quebec experienced an era of rapid change. What is this called?

The West Movement.
The Revolution.
The Quiet Revolution. (correct answer)
La Francophonie.
19. In what industry do most Canadians work?

Natural resources
Tourism.
Service. (correct answer)
Manufacturing.
20. In which region do more than half the people in Canada live?

Central Canada. (correct answer)
Prairies.
Atlantic Canada.
Northern Canada.
21. Name all the federal political parties in the House of Commons and their leaders

Conservative (Andrew Scheer - interim leader), NDP (Don Davies - interim leader), Liberal (Mark Carney), Bloc Quebecois (Blanchet), Green Party (May) (correct answer)
Conservative (Poilievre), Green (May), Liberal (Trudeau), Bloc Quebecois (Duceppe)
NDP (Mulcair), Green (May), Liberal (Rae), Bloc Quebecois (Paillé)
Liberal (Ignatieff), Conservative (Ambrose), NDP (Turmel), Green (May)
22. Name six responsibilities of citizenship.

Getting a job, making money, raising a family, paying taxes, mowing your lawn, voting in provincial elections.
Voting in municipal elections only, joining a political party, getting a job, obeying the law, driving safely, picking up litter.
Caring for the environment, not littering, paying taxes, obeying the law, helping others, respecting others.
Obeying the law, taking responsibility for oneself and one's family, helping others in the community, voting in elections, serving on a jury, protecting and enjoying our heritage and environment. (correct answer)
23. Name the five regions of Canada

Midwest, North, South, East, Central
Maritimes, Ontario, Quebec, Prairies, and British Columbia
Atlantic, Central, Prairie, West Coast, and North (correct answer)
West, Central, East, Prairies, and Territories
24. Name three additional rights protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

Freedom of speech, Right to own land, and Right to a fair trial.
Mobility rights, Multiculturalism, and Aboriginal Peoples' rights. (correct answer)
Right to ski anywhere in Canada, Moving rights, and Right to public assembly.
Right to vote, Right to speak publicly, and Security rights.
25. Name two fundamental freedoms protected by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

Freedom of conscience and religion, and Freedom of association. (correct answer)
Equality rights, and to care for Canada's heritage.
Basic freedoms, and obeying laws.
Aboriginal peoples' rights, and to volunteer.
26. Name two key documents that contain our rights and freedoms.

The Canadian Constitution and English common law.
Civil code of France and the Canadian Constitution.
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Magna Carta (the Great Charter of Freedoms). (correct answer)
Laws passed by Parliament and English common law.
27. Name two responsibilities of the federal government.

National defence and firefighting.
National defence and foreign policy. (correct answer)
Citizenship and highways.
Recycling and education.
28. Name two responsibilities of the provincial and territorial government.

Citizenship and Foreign Policy
Health and Education (correct answer)
Defense and Currency
Criminal Law and Interprovincial Trade
29. On what date did Nunavut become a territory?

July 1st, 1867
April 1st, 1999 (correct answer)
June 24th, 1995
March 31st, 1949
30. One third of all Canadians live in which province?

Quebec.
Ontario. (correct answer)
Northwest Territories.
Manitoba.
31. The Canadian Coat of Arms and motto is “A Mari Usque Ad Mare.” This means:

From the ocean to the sea.
From sea to sea. (correct answer)
From the sea to the ends of the earth.
From the water to the earth.
32. What are some examples of taking responsibility for yourself and your family?

Buying a house and a TV.
Getting a job, taking care of one's family and working hard in keeping with one's abilities. (correct answer)
Doing laundry and keeping the house clean.
Study hard so you can earn enough money to take a vacation.
33. What are the Prairie provinces and their capital cities?

Alberta (Edmonton) and Saskatchewan (Regina).
Alberta (Edmonton), Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba (Winnipeg).
Saskatchewan (Regina), Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
34. What are the provinces of Central Canada and their capital cities?

Manitoba (Winnipeg) and Ontario (Toronto).
Quebec (Quebec City) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown).
Ontario (Toronto) and Quebec (Quebec City). (correct answer)
Saskatchewan (Regina) and Manitoba Winnipeg).
35. What are the provinces of the Atlantic region and their capital cities?

Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown) and Quebec (Quebec).
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Prince Edward Island (Charlottetown). (correct answer)
Newfoundland and Labrador (St. John's), Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton) and Quebec (Quebec).
Nova Scotia (Halifax), New Brunswick (Fredericton), Quebec (Quebec City)and Ontario (Toronto).
36. What are the territories of Northern Canada and their capital cities?

Alaska (Juneau) and Yukon Territory ( Whitehorse).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife) and Alaska (Juneau).
Northwest Territories (Yellowknife).
Yukon Territory (Whitehorse), Northwest Territories (Yellowknife), and Nunavut (Iqaluit). (correct answer)
37. What are the three levels of government in Canada?

Federal, Provincial and Territorial, Municipal (local). (correct answer)
Federal, Provincial and City.
Federal, Territorial and Provincial.
Federal, State and Local.
38. What are the three main groups of Aboriginal peoples?

First Nations, Métis and Inuit. (correct answer)
Acadians, Métis and Inuit.
United Empire Loyalists, Métis and Inuit.
Inuit, Métis and Acadians.
39. What are the three main types of industry in Canada?

Natural resources, tourism and service industries..
Tourism, services and manufacturing.
Natural resources, tourism and manufacturing.
Natural resources, manufacturing and services. (correct answer)
40. What are the three parts of Parliament?

The Sovereign, Governor General and Prime Minister.
The House of Commons, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The King, the Legislative Assembly and the Senate.
The Sovereign, the House of Commons and the Senate. (correct answer)
41. What are the two official languages of Canada?

English and Métis.
Inuktitut and French.
English and French. (correct answer)
English and Inuktitut.
42. What country is Canada’s largest trading partner?

Mexico.
United States of America. (correct answer)
China.
Japan.
43. What did the Canadian Pacific Railway symbolize?

Easy access to the West Coast.
What can be achieved by working together.
Unity. (correct answer)
Ribbons of steel.
44. What did the Fathers of Confederation do?

They worked together to establish a new country, the Dominion of Canada (correct answer)
They were explorers who formed an expedition to survey Northern Canada
They formed a republic state in Canada
They were a group of politicians that tried to unite Canada to the United States
45. What do you call a law before it is passed?

A New law.
A Proposed law.
A Bill. (correct answer)
A New proposal.
46. What do you call the Sovereign’s representative in the provinces?

Premier.
Member of the Legislative Assembly.
Lieutenant-Governor. (correct answer)
Senator.
47. What do you mark on a federal election ballot?

The candidate\'s name.
The number for the candidate.
An x (correct answer)
The voter\'s name.
48. What does Confederation mean?

The United States Confederate soldiers came to Canada.
Joining of communities to become a province.
Joining of suburbs to form a large city.
Joining of provinces to make a new country. (correct answer)
49. What does it mean to say Canada is a constitutional monarchy?

The Sovereign (Queen or King) is the law maker of Canada.
Canada's Head of State is a hereditary Sovereign (Queen or King) who reigns in accordance with the Constitution. (correct answer)
The Sovereign (Queen or King) represents Canadians in Parliament.
The Sovereign (Queen or King) approves bills before becoming law.
50. What does the “right to a secret ballot” mean?

No one should tell you where to vote
A secret vote used by politicians when they are voting on sensitive topics
No one can watch your vote and no one should look at how you voted (correct answer)
Your right to vote in secret on who to appoint to the Senate
51. What does the Canadian flag look like?

Red and white with provincial emblems.
Red and white with a beaver.
White with a red border on each end and a red maple leaf in the centre. (correct answer)
Red with a white maple leaf.
52. What does the term “responsible government” mean?

Each person in each electoral district is responsible for voting.
The Governor General is responsible for the actions of the Prime Minister.
The ministers of the Crown must have the support of a majority of the elected representatives in order to govern. (correct answer)
All Canadians are responsible for each other.
53. What does the word “Inuit” mean?

Eskimo in Inuktitut
House in English
The people in Inuktitut (correct answer)
Arctic land in Inuktitut
54. What happened at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham?

The Voyagers battled with the British for fur trading rights
Americans fought the United Empire Loyalists during the American Revolution
The British defeated the French marking the end of France's empire in America (correct answer)
The French defeated the British in a battle for Quebec
55. What is a Francophone?

A person who speaks English as their first language
A smartphone designed by the Canadian company RIM
A person who speaks French as their first language (correct answer)
The first phone in Canada, invented by Alexander Graham Bell
56. What is a major river in Quebec?

Fraser River
St. Lawrence River (correct answer)
Niagara
Hudson's Bay.
57. What is a majority government?

When the party in power holds about one third of the seats in the House of Commons
When the party in power holds about one quarter of the seats in the House of Commons.
When the part in power holds at least half of the seats in the Senate.
When the party in power holds at least half of the seats in the House of Commons. (correct answer)
58. What is a voter information card?

Tells you who the candidates are in your electoral district.
Tells you what province to vote in.
A form that tells you when and where to vote. (correct answer)
A form that lets you know your voting time.
59. What is Canada’s national winter sport?

Golf.
Nordic skiing.
Lacrosse.
Hockey. (correct answer)
60. What is Canada’s system of government called?

Dictatorship.
Parliamentary government. (correct answer)
Military Rule.
Communism.
61. What is meant by the equality of women and men?

Men and women are equal under the law. (correct answer)
Men and women must both do housework.
Women may now go to school and enter the professional workforce.
A woman may now become Prime Minister.
62. What is the “head tax”?

Race-based entry fee charged for Chinese entering Canada. (correct answer)
Fee charged for anyone entering Canada after 1900.
A tax imposed on beer beginning in 1867.
Fee charged for moving westward in the early 1900s.
63. What is the capital city of Canada?

Ottawa. (correct answer)
Toronto.
Montreal.
Hull.
64. What is the capital City of Nova Scotia?

Shearwater
Halifax (correct answer)
Dartmouth
Devon
65. What is the difference between the role of the Sovereign and that of the Prime Minister?

The Sovereign is Head of State, the Prime Minister oversees provincial policies.
The Sovereign is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms, the Prime Minister selects the Cabinet ministers and is responsible for operations and policy of government. (correct answer)
The Sovereign links Canada to 52 other nations and the Prime Minister is the guardian of Constitutional freedoms.
The Sovereign is the symbol of Canadian sovereignty and the Prime Minister is her aide.
66. What is the government of all of Canada called?

National assembly.
Legislature.
Federal. (correct answer)
Council.
67. What is the highest court in Canada?

The King\'s Bench
The Senate Court of Canada
The Supreme Court of Canada (correct answer)
The Crown Court of Canada
68. What is the highest military honour a Canadian can receive?

Purple Cross.
Badge of Courage.
Order of Merit.
Victoria Cross. (correct answer)
69. What is the largest religious affiliation in Canada?

Catholic. (correct answer)
Muslim.
Jewish.
Hindu.
70. What is the meaning of the Remembrance Day poppy?

To remember our Sovereign, King Charles III.
To celebrate Confederation.
To honour Prime Ministers who have died.
To remember the sacrifice of Canadians who have served or died in wars up to the present day. (correct answer)
71. What is the name of the Governor General?

David Johnston.
Mary Simon. (correct answer)
Richard Wagner.
Julie Payette
72. What is the name of the leader of the Opposition in Nova Scotia?

Darrell Dexter
John MacDonell
Claudia Chender (correct answer)
Jamie Baillie
73. What is the name of the Lieutenant-Governor of Nova Scotia?

Honourable John James Grant
Honourable Myra Freeman
Honourable Mayann Francis
Honourable Mike Savage (correct answer)
74. What is the name of the Premier of Nova Scotia?

Premier Darrel Dexter
Premier Stephen McNeil
Premier Tim Houston (correct answer)
Premier Rodney MacDonald
75. What is the name of the Prime Minister of Canada and his/her party?

Mark Carney (Liberal Party). (correct answer)
Pierre Poilievre (Conservative Party).
Jagmeet Singh (New Democratic Party).
Pierre Trudeau (Liberal Party).
76. What is the name of the Royal Anthem of Canada?

O Canada.
God Save the Queen (or King). (correct answer)
La Marseillaise
The Star-Spangled Banner.
77. What is the role of the courts in Canada?

To enforce the law.
To guide people in our society.
To settle disputes. (correct answer)
To express values and beliefs of Canadians.
78. What is the role of the Opposition parties?

To assist the Prime Minister.
To sign bills.
To oppose or try to improve government proposals. (correct answer)
To put forward bills to be passed.
79. What is the significance of the discovery of insulin by Sir Frederick Banting and Charles Best?

Insulin is a hormone that permits you to eat anything you wish.
Insulin has saved 16 million lives worldwide. (correct answer)
Discovering insulin opened the doors to more discoveries.
Discovering insulin made Drs. Banting and Best famous.
80. What part of the Constitution legally protects the basic rights and freedoms of all Canadians?

The British Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights.
The Canadian Charter of Freedoms.
The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. (correct answer)
81. What percentage of Aboriginal people are First Nations?

30%.
6%.
50%.
65%. (correct answer)
82. What should you do if you do not receive a voter information card telling you when and where to vote?

Go to the police station.
Call your Member of Parliament.
Assume you cannot vote.
Call Elections Canada or visit their website. (correct answer)
83. What song is Canada’s national anthem?

God Save the King.
O Canada. (correct answer)
Star Spangled Banner.
Amazing Grace.
84. What three industries are important to Nova Scotia’s economy today?

Fisheries, shipbuilding and forestry
Forestry, mining and tourism
Coal mining, forestry and agriculture (correct answer)
Tourism, movies and shipbuilding
85. What three oceans border Canada?

Atlantic, Arctic and Bering.
Atlantic, Arctic and Pacific. (correct answer)
Pacific, Indian and Atlantic.
Hudson, Pacific and Atlantic.
86. What was the “Underground Railroad”?

An anti-slavery network that helped thousands of slaves escape the United States and settle in Canada (correct answer)
A railroad through the Rockies that was mainly through mountain tunnels
A network fur traders used to transport beaver pelts to the United States
The first underground subway tunnel in Toronto
87. What was the significance of June 6, 1944 invasion of Normandy?

It led to the establishment of the Juno Awards.
It liberated North Africa from Nazi occupation.
Canadians made a significant contribution to the defeat of Nazism and Fascism in Europe during the Second World War. (correct answer)
It resulted in the forcible relocation of Canadians of Japanese origin.
88. What was the Women’s Suffrage Movement?

The effort by women to achieve the right to vote. (correct answer)
The effort by women to participate in military service.
An unsuccessful movement to get husbands to do housework.
The effort by women to be in Parliament.
89. What will you promise when you take the Oath of Citizenship?

Pledge allegiance to the King, observe the laws of Canada and fulfil the duties of a Canadian. (correct answer)
Pledge to be faithful to the King.
Promise to observe the laws of Canada.
Fulfil duties as a Canadian citizen.
90. What year did Newfoundland and Labrador join Canada?

1867
1955
1949 (correct answer)
1880
91. What year was Confederation?

1867. (correct answer)
1871.
1898.
1864.
92. When asked, who must you tell how you voted in a federal election?

Your employer.
No one. (correct answer)
A police officer.
An Elections Canada official.
93. When did the British North America Act come into effect?

1871.
1898.
1867. (correct answer)
1905.
94. When did the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms become part of the Canadian Constitution?

1867.
1905.
1982. (correct answer)
1878.
95. When is Canada Day and what does it celebrate?

June 15 of each year to celebrate the anniversary of Confederation.
August 8th of each year to celebrate the joining of British Columbia to Confederation.
We celebrate the anniversary of Confederation July 1st of each year. (correct answer)
May 21st of each year to remember Queen Victoria.
96. When is Remembrance Day celebrated?

July 1st
October 1st.
November 11th. (correct answer)
December 25th
97. When must federal elections be held?

About every 4 years.
On the third Monday in October every four years following the most recent general election. (correct answer)
Whenever the Prime Minister calls the election.
When the MPs want a new Prime Minister.
98. When you vote on election day, what do you do?

Go to the voting station, tell them who you are and mark your X. Give the ballot back to the attendant.
Go to the voting station, remove 1 ballot and after marking your X deposit it in the ballot box.
Go to the voting station, take your voter\'s card with proof if identity, highlight your choice on the ballot and deposit it in the box.
Go to the voting station with your voter\'s card and ID, mark an X next to your chosen candidate, fold the ballot and present it to the poll officials who will tear off the ballot number and give you the ballot to deposit in the box (correct answer)
99. Where are the Great Lakes?

Between Ontario and the United States (correct answer)
Manitoba.
Northern Quebec.
Atlantic Canada.
100. Where are the Parliament Buildings located?

Ottawa. (correct answer)
Quebec City.
Hull.
Toronto.
101. Where do most French-speaking Canadians live?

Ontario.
Nova Scotia.
Quebec. (correct answer)
Prince Edward Island.
102. Where does Canada rank in the world’s largest countries?

First
Second (correct answer)
Third
Fourth
103. Which Act granted, for the first time in Canada, legislative assemblies elected by the people?

The Constitutional Act of 1867.
The Constitutional Act of 1791. (correct answer)
The Constitutional Act of 1982.
The Constitutional Act of 2010.
104. Which animal is an official symbol of Canada?

The moose.
The hawk.
The beaver. (correct answer)
The deer.
105. Which country borders Canada on the south?

United States of America. (correct answer)
Central America.
Mexico.
Washington.
106. Which federal political party is in power?

Green Party.
New Democratic Party.
Liberal Party. (correct answer)
Conservative Party.
107. Which of the following is NOT a feature of Canada’s system of government?

A federal state.
Parliamentary democracy.
Constitutional Monarchy.
Dictatorship. (correct answer)
108. Which of the following sentences best describes the War of 1812?

Napoleon's fleet was defeated by the Royal Navy in the war.
The USA became independent from the British Empire after the war.
The USA invaded Canada and was defeated, which ensured that Canada would remain independent of the United States. (correct answer)
Canada joined the United States after the war.
109. Which of the following statements about residential schools is NOT true?

The federal government placed many Aboriginal children in residential schools to educate and assimilate them into mainstream Canadian culture.
The schools were poorly funded and inflicted hardship on the students.
The schools were welcomed by the Aboriginal people. (correct answer)
Aboriginal language and cultural practices were mostly prohibited.
110. Which party becomes the Official Opposition?

The party with the second most MPs. (correct answer)
The party receiving the least votes.
Any independent candidate.
The party the Prime Minister selects.
111. Which party is the Official Opposition at the federal level?

The New Democratic Party.
The Liberal Party.
The Independent Party.
The Conservative Party. (correct answer)
112. Which political party is in power in Nova Scotia?

New Democrats
Progressive Conservative (correct answer)
Liberal
Nova Scotia Party
113. Which port is the largest and busiest in Canada?

The Port of Halifax
The Port of Montreal
The Port of Vancouver (correct answer)
The Port of Victoria
114. Which province has its own time zone?

British Columbia
Newfoundland and Labrador (correct answer)
Nunavut
Nova Scotia
115. Which province in Canada is the smallest in land size?

Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward Island. (correct answer)
Yukon Territory.
Newfoundland and Labrador.
116. Which province is the main producer of pulp and paper and hydro-electricity?

Quebec (correct answer)
Ontario
British Columbia
Manitoba
117. Which province is the only officially bilingual province?

New Brunswick. (correct answer)
Quebec.
Ontario.
Prince Edward Island.
118. Which province was split into two at Confederation?

Lower Canada
Newfoundland
Upper Canada
The Province of Canada (correct answer)
119. Which province was the first to grant voting rights to women?

Quebec
Ontario
Nova Scotia
Manitoba (correct answer)
120. Which provincial flag features the fleur-de-lys?

Quebec (correct answer)
New Brunswick
Manitoba
Ontario
121. Which region covers more than one-third of Canada?

Central Canada.
Prairies.
Atlantic Canada.
Northern Territories. (correct answer)
122. Which region is known as the industrial and manufacturing heartland of Canada?

Atlantic provinces.
Prairie provinces.
Central Canada. (correct answer)
West Coast.
123. Which region of Canada is known for both its fertile agricultural land and valuable energy resources?

British Columbia.
Prairie provinces. (correct answer)
Ontario.
Manitoba.
124. Which three countries are signatories to NAFTA?

Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Canada, the United States and Japan.
Canada, Mexico and the United States. (correct answer)
Canada, Denmark and Andorra.
125. Which was the last province to join Canada?

Newfoundland. (correct answer)
Alberta.
Saskatchewan.
British Columbia.
126. Who are the Aboriginal peoples of Canada?

The first European settlers to arrive in Canada
The descendents of the first Australian immigrants to Canada
The first people to live in Canada (correct answer)
The first settlers of Newfoundland
127. Who are the Acadians?

Aboriginal people of the arctic.
French-speaking Catholics living in Ontario.
The descendants of French colonists who began settling in what are now the Maritime provinces in 1604. (correct answer)
English speaking refugees who settled in Louisiana.
128. Who are the founding peoples of Canada?

Métis, French and British.
Aboriginal, Métis and British.
Inuit, Aboriginal and British.
Aboriginal, French and British. (correct answer)
129. Who are the Métis?

The distinct aboriginal people of Atlantic Canada.
A people of mixed Inuit/First Nations ancestry most of whom live on the Prairies.
First Nations people speaking the Michif dialect.
A distinct people of mixed Aboriginal and European ancestry. (correct answer)
130. Who are the Quebecers?

European settlers in the 1600s.
Descendants of the French colonists.
Descendants of the Anglophones.
People of Quebec. (correct answer)
131. Who do Canadians vote for in a federal election?

The best speaker running in the election.
A candidate they want to represent them in Parliament. (correct answer)
Someone to become the Premier.
All of the candidates in their electoral district.
132. Who do Members of Parliament represent?

All of the Canadians living in the north.
Only Canadians living in Central Canada.
Everyone who lives in his or her electoral district. (correct answer)
Canadians living in the province in which he/she was elected.
133. Who had played an important part in building the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR)?

American railroad engineers.
Acadian railroad workers.
Chinese railroad workers. (correct answer)
African American slaves.
134. Who has the right to run as a candidate in federal elections?

Anyone.
A Canadian citizen who is 16 years old.
Any man who is at least 18 years old.
Any Canadian citizen who is at least 18 years old. (correct answer)
135. Who has the right to vote in federal elections?

A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older, and on voters' list. (correct answer)
A Canadian citizen, 18 years or older and must work for the federal government.
A landed immigrant, 18 years old and a memberof the Canadian Forces.
A Canadian citizen, over 25 years and a member of the Canadian Forces.
136. Who have major responsibilities on First Nations reserves?

Band chiefs and councillors. (correct answer)
Municipal governments.
Provincial and territorial governments.
Federal government.
137. Who is Canada’s Head of State?

Governor General of Canada.
His Majesty King Charles III. (correct answer)
Prime Minister.
Lieutenant Governor.
138. Who is considered the father of Manitoba?

John A. Macdonald
Sam Steele
Alfred Boyd
Louis Riel (correct answer)
139. Who is General Sir Arthur Currie?

A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
A great frontier hero.
An explorer of western Canada.
Canada's greatest soldier in the First World War. (correct answer)
140. Who is the Head of Government?

The President
The King
The Governor General
The Prime Minister (correct answer)
141. Who is the King’s representative in Canada?

Prime Minister of Canada.
Premier.
Lieutenant-Governor.
Governor General of Canada. (correct answer)
142. Who is the leader of the Federal Official Opposition Party?

Thomas Mulcair
Andrew Scheer
Pierre Poilievre (correct answer)
Elizabeth May
143. Who led an armed uprising and seized Fort Garry?

John A. Macdonald
Louis Riel (correct answer)
Sam Steele
George-Étienne Cartier
144. Who led Quebec into Confederation?

Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine
Sir George-Étienne Cartier (correct answer)
Sir Wilfrid Laurier
Sir John A. Macdonald
145. Who was Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine?

A champion of democracy and Aboriginal rights.
A champion of democracy and French language rights and the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas. (correct answer)
The first Head of State.
The first French speaking Prime Minister.
146. Who was Sir Sam Steele?

A great frontier hero, Mounted Policeman and soldier. (correct answer)
A military leader of the Métis in the 19th century.
The first Prime Minister of Canada.
The Father of Manitoba.
147. Who was the first leader of a responsible government in the Canadas in 1849?

Sir John A. Macdonald.
Robert Baldwin.
Louis Riel.
Sir Louis-Hippolyte La Fontaine. (correct answer)
148. Who was the first Prime Minister of Canada?

Louis Riel.
Sir John A. Macdonald. (correct answer)
Lester B. Pearson.
Abraham Lincoln.
149. Who were the United Empire Loyalists?

Settlers who came to Canada from the United States during the American Revolution. (correct answer)
Aboriginal peoples.
Métis
Inuit.
150. Who were the Voyagers?

Montreal-based traders who travelled by canoe (correct answer)
Immigrants to Canada in the 18th Century
Explorers searching for the North-West Passage
Geographers who first charted the coastline of British Columbia
151. Why is the battle of Vimy Ridge important?

It was a key position of the German line in Northern Spain.
Canadian Corps secured its reputation for valour and bravery. (correct answer)
It was the "hinge" of the German line as it protected the newly constructed Hindenburg line.
Once Canadians fought at Vimy they knew they would be heading home.
152. Why is trade with other countries important to Canada?

It enhances our standard of living.
It makes it easier for us to travel to foreign countries.
It enhances our economy and raises our standard of living. (correct answer)
It brings in cheaper goods.